#!/usr/bin/env perl6
#
use v6;

# Running the pod file will create a pdf using wkhtmltopdf
#
my Str $pod = "$*PROGRAM";
my Str $pdf = $pod;
$pdf ~~ s/\. <-[.]>+ $/.pdf/;
shell( "perl6 --doc=HTML '$pod' | wkhtmltopdf - '$pdf'");

#-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=begin pod

=begin Xhtml
<style>
  pre {
/**/
    border-width:       2px;
    border-style:       solid;
    border-color:       #060;
    padding:            10px 0 3px 10px;
    color:              #060;
    background-color:   #eaefea;
    font-family:        FreeMono;
  }
</style>
=end Xhtml

=TITLE class MongoDB::Connection

=SUBTITLE Mongod server connection and info

Defined as

  package MongoDB { class Connection { ... } }

The class provides methods such as connecting to mongod server and ask
information from the server.

This class helps the client to connect to the server and provides some
maintenance commands. The class is loaded automatically with the MongoDB
module.

=begin code

use v6;
use MongoDB::Connection;

# Connect to MongoDB server at localhost port 27017
my MongoDB::Connection $connection .= new();

=end code



=head1 METHODS

=head2 method new

Defined as:

  method new ( Str :$host = 'localhost', Int :$port = 27017 )

Usage:

  my MongoDB::Connection $c .= new( :host<example.com>, :port(1234));

Creates a new C<Connection> object. When all is ok the connection status will
be undefined. Otherwise it will hold the X::MongoDB exception which can be
thrown when needed.

Example:

  my MongoDB::Connection $c .= new(:host<non-existent-host.gov>);
  if ? $c.status {
    note 'Oh oh not good, try something else';
    note $c.status.error-text;

    # Try default or die
    $c .= new;
    die $connection.status if ? $c.status;
  }

B<NOTE: This is going to change when connections are created in the background.
furthermore the way hosts and ports are to be defined will be as a kind of url
format.>

=head2 method send

Defined as

  method send ( Buf:D $b --> Nil )

Send encoded data to the mongo server. DO NOT ATTEMPT TO USE IT YOURSELF. Let
instead the several modules do the sending because they know what to send.
Besides this, it is subject to change when connection pooling comes into play.

=head2 method receive

Defined as

  method receive ( Int $nbr-bytes --> Buf )

Receive the number of bytes from the server. Again: DO NOT ATTEMPT TO USE IT
YOURSELF. Let instead the several modules do the receiving because they know
what to expect.Besides this, it is subject to change when connection pooling
comes into play.

=end pod
